is that earth you can see at a distance
right
just look at it floating in space
hanging out with its planet buddies
you spot orange red mars and jupiter
with its asteroid belt
even tiny pluto is there
all these planets keep their distance
from each other moving along in their
own orbits
they're not very social you see but
that's a good thing
it would cause nothing but trouble if
they started to bump into each other
but even though there are others earth
is the only planet we know that has life
and we've even figured out why
it's because it was lucky enough to
appear in the best spot in our solar
system
in the goldilocks zone
scientists say the key ingredient for
life is water
but well there's water on mercury this
planet has deposits of water ice at its
south and north poles
but only because those places never see
the light
everywhere else water simply evaporates
from the surface of the planet
mercury is way too close to the sun
pluto has some water too a astronomers
even think
the dwarf planet might be up to 30 water
but it's frozen unlike mercury pluto's
too far away from the sun
which is why all its water is in the
form of ice
but earth hovers in a perfect spot
called the habitable zone
it has the right temperature for the
water to remain liquid
and for all forms of life to flourish
but what if earth was the only planet in
the solar system
no mars no jupiter no mercury no venus
things might have turned out a little
different than what we're used to
remember that massive asteroid that hit
the earth around 66 million years ago
well without jupiter and its asteroid
belt
our planet would be constantly hit by
meteorites and asteroids
and some of them would be just as big as
the one that caused
all that sorrow to the dinosaurs these
rocky fellas would be roaming around in
space
with no one and nothing to stop them and
if earth was the only planet out there
it would also be their only target
but that's not all look at all this huge
space
earth would have all to itself it means
our planet would have an opportunity
to travel a bit it could even choose to
leave the goldilocks zone
but then would life on the planet still
be the same
so let's say earth started drifting away
from the sun
then it'd soon get too cold on the
planet
picture a place where the sun doesn't
shine anymore
dark cold covered in ice and snow
all year round that would be our earth
if it traveled further from the sun
if this happened our cities would start
to look very different
right now earth is full of life come to
any
park and you'll see green trees and
grass everywhere
there will be people walking sitting on
the benches enjoying the sun
you'll definitely spot someone playing
soccer or frisbee
on the park's lawns there will be people
resting on their blankets
soaking up the sun a few people will be
reading their books
looking relaxed and happy back in space
you see earth again the planet is still
in its favorite spot
that's why life is so beautiful down
there but wait
is it moving our planet is definitely
further from the sun now
has it changed things for earth it
actually looks a bit
bluer now down there famous golden
california
is not so golden anymore it's gloomy and
dark
much like all other places on earth new
york is covered in ice
even in the hottest places the
temperatures are now below freezing
including tropical destinations like the
bahamas
after a while liquid water turns into
ice
the oceans now look like giant skating
rinks
except there's no one to skate there
since the planet has become way too cold
to support life okay
then what if instead of drifting further
away from the sun
earth moved closer with people still
aboard
the temperatures here are crazy too hot
to handle
the climate would be getting hotter and
hotter natural disasters would start to
occur
more often hurricanes and floods would
be a common thing on earth now
and pretty soon the planet would get too
hot for people to handle
particles from the sun would become a
serious threat
the atmosphere would be struggling to
protect earth from solar radiation
but this shield would be growing weaker
liquid water would be nowhere to be
found anymore
maybe only in underground deposits earth
would look a bit like mars
all rocky and barren the mississippi
river would dry up
and leave behind a huge canyon all the
oceans would be gone too
at the moment the mariana trench is the
deepest known place on earth
it's incredibly hard to reach its bottom
because of the immense water pressure
there
but without water trips to the deepest
spot on earth
would be possible it would help people
uncover some more of earth's secrets
if people still lived on the dry and
scorching hot planet that is
in other words if someone was to explore
earth
after the planet had moved closer to the
sun everything would be completely
different
but what if earth didn't move at all and
everything remained the same
the only difference there would be no
other planets around us
it would change the way people explore
space sure there would still be
navigation
communication and weather satellites and
maybe space telescopes but there
wouldn't be any other space
objects close enough for people to send
missions there
this would affect the future too if
people had no desire or opportunity to
go to space
they would invest in their home planet
they would build sky
cities instead of looking for other
planets to colonize
these days if you get a state-of-the-art
telescope you'll see distant stars and
other planets
the better the telescope the more detail
there is for you to see
but with no other planets out there the
picture of space
wouldn't be so exciting stars would
still be visible
and you might even spot a meteorite or
two and you'd definitely see the moon
but that's about it space agencies would
mostly be focused on keeping
earth secure mainly because asteroids
would become frequent visitors
to protect the planet scientists would
have to figure out ways to get rid of
them
like a massive laser beam when turned on
it could go all the way to the moon and
even further
instead of building rockets to explore
space spacex and nasa
would be in the asteroid clearing
business
people wouldn't even think of trying to
contact other civilizations
if there were no planets similar to
earth they would consider it a wasted
effort
this means no radio signals being
constantly sent out to space
a curious fact in february of 2008
the beatles song across the universe was
beamed into deep space
it was done to celebrate both the song's
40th anniversary
and nasa's 50th anniversary
in the 70s people also sent a radio
signal
out into space it contained some basic
information about humans
and the solar system but it was more a
feat of strength for technology
than an attempt to contact any alien
buddies we
might have with no planets around
the world of sci-fi would change too
there would be no more movies about
deep space exploration no massive
spaceships and rockets would appear on
the big screen
and since there would be no expeditions
to other planets
no rovers would be sent to space to look
for signs of life
and explore new worlds like what the
rovers on mars are doing right now
people would concentrate more on their
own planet
for example they would begin to explore
its insides
new technologies would allow us to dig
much much deeper
all the way through earth's crust and
further
and doesn't a trip to the planet's core
sound exciting
instead of astronauts there would be
explorers of the deep underground
new drilling technologies would be
invented to make the digging process
more effective
there would be new types of vehicles
they would be created
to drill and protect explorers from the
enormous underground pressure
while exploring the world under the
planet's surface people would likely
find
absolutely new life forms those would be
mysterious creatures that evolved to
survive in the dark
in extreme temperatures and with barely
any food
it certainly helped people understand
more about their home planet